Profiler: migrate actions to dedicated pages (#46259)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_actions/profiler.start_log_object_sources.markdown

---
title: "Profiler: Start log object sources"
action: profiler.start_log_object_sources
domain: profiler
description: "Starts logging the growth of objects in memory and tries to find their source."
related_actions:
  - profiler.stop_log_object_sources
  - profiler.start_log_objects
  - profiler.dump_log_objects
---

Use this action to start logging the growth of objects in memory and attempt to find the source of the new objects. Its primary use case is finding memory leaks.

> This action is similar to [Profiler: Start log objects](/actions/profiler.start_log_objects/), except that it is much more CPU intensive, since it attempts to locate the source of each new object, up to the **Max objects** value each time it logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This action is similar to [Profiler: Start log objects](/actions/profiler.start_log_objects/). **Profiler: Start log object sources** is much more CPU intensive, because it attempts to locate the source of each new object, up to the **Max objects** value each time it logs.

This action requires an administrator account.
```

7. Select **Save**.

### Options in the UI

{% options_ui %}
Scan interval:
  description: How often to log the objects, in seconds. Defaults to 30.
  required: false
Max objects:
  description: The number of new objects to examine for source information. Defaults to 5.
  required: false
{% endoptions_ui %}

{% include actions/yaml_header.md %}

In YAML, refer to this action as `profiler.start_log_object_sources`. A basic example looks like this:

{% example %}
action: |
  action: profiler.start_log_object_sources
  data:
    scan_interval: 60
    max_objects: 10
{% endexample %}

This logs the growth of objects in memory every 60 seconds, examining up to 10 new objects for their source.

### Options in YAML

{% options_yaml %}
scan_interval:
  description: How often to log the objects, in seconds. Defaults to 30.
  required: false
  type: float
max_objects:
  description: The number of new objects to examine for source information, between 1 and 1024. Defaults to 5.
  required: false
  type: integer
{% endoptions_yaml %}

This action does not support targets.

## Good to know

This action requires an administrator account.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
